# Bachelor-Thesis-Construction-of-a-COVID-19-lockdown-index-at-the-federal-state-level-for-Germany.
Construction of a COVID-19 lockdown index at the federal state level for Germany. An analysis of the mobility trends for places of work during the COVID-19 pandemic.

The stringency index provided by the Oxford COVID-19 Government Re- sponse Tracker (OxCGRT) Hale et al. (2020) has been widely used by scientists and the media during the pandemic to compare and illustrate the strictness of policy responses around the world. However, the OxCGRT stringency index for Germany has two main points of criticism: (i) the heterogeneous policy response in Germany is measured on the nation country-level instead of the provincial country-level and (ii) the methodology to construct the strictness on the national country-level using the maximum values of German districts leads to an overestimation of policy strictness in Germany.
To explain the first point of criticism (i), we first examine the necessity of stringency indices measuring the heterogeneous policy response of Germany on the provincial country-level. Following, we construct stringency indices for Germany on the provincial country-level covering the period March 2020 to November 2020. By analyzing the new stringency indices on the provincial country-level, we provide further evidence of the heterogeneous nature of the German police response, supporting the findings of Buthe et al. (2020a). We create a national index based on the provincial indices using the maximum method of the OxCGRT and our average method. Thus, we provide evidence for (ii) comparing the constructed national stringency indices with the Ox- CGRT. The main contribution of the first part of the paper is two provide new stringency data on the provincial country-level measuring the overall pol- icy stringency and the strictness of subindices regarding the policy categories school closing, closure and regulation of business, curfews, internal border restrictions, lockdown restrictions, mask-wearing requirements, and social dis- tancing.
In the second part of the paper, we analyze the mobility trends for places of work during the COVID-19 pandemic using the constructed stringency indices and mobility data provided by the COVID-19 Community Mobility Report. We quantify the negative effects of the pandemic on mobility patterns using a fixed-effects (within) regression. Further subject of research is the effect of the share of work-from-home (WFH) jobs throughout German provinces and districts on the mobility trend for places of work. In regards to Irlacher and Koch (2021) we construct WFH shares for the German provinces using recent data (2021) provided by infas360. Subsequently, we use a random-effects GLS regression to: (a) measure the effect of the province-specific variable WFH on mobility for places of work, and (b) measure the effect of income indicators on mobility for places of work. We use (a) and (b) to check for the occurrence of a mobility gap due to differences in the region-specific average income that has been observed by Bonaccorsi et al. (2020) in Italy and by Ruiz-Euler et al. (2020) in the United States of America (US). Finally, we discuss the potential effect of COVID-19 induced changes in mobility trends for places of work on the distribution of income between German districts and between former East and West Germany. We compare our findings to Irlacher and Koch (2021) and provide new insights on the distributional effect of the WFH rate throughout urban and rural areas.
